in New York Columbia University has
extended a deadline by 48 hours for pro
Palestinian student protesters to clear
the campus the university says students
have agreed to dismantle a number of
tents police have warned they will clear
the entire Camp if the demonstrators
fail to leave protests against the war
in Gaza have spread to universities
across the United States with several
colleges have enclosed campuses and
hundreds of students who have been
arrested
policy analyst Liz schula joins me from
the United States for more on this good
to see you again Liz what we're seeing
on University campuses across the
country at the moment is it fair to say
that that this seems to be a student
movement beyond anything we've seen in
in quite a long
time there have been a ton of parallels
drawn between this movement in 1968
which was a massive student movement
both here in the states and kind of
abroad I'm a millennial and it
immediately actually reminds me of
zucati Park in Occupy Wall Street and
while that wasn't happening on college
campuses it spread to college campuses
and it involved students one of their
huge initial pushes was tackling student
debt so this is something that is a long
history of the youth and students using
their voices using their energy and
using their spaces to protest what they
feel like are important issues there's
also a lot of places plac where this
differs from historic student protests
when we think of 68 we really think of
students against the authority students
against um the higher ups when we think
of Occupy Wall Street and zucati we
think about the average person against
um the Millionaires and the billionaires
so what are we seeing today in this
student protest that makes it kind of
similar to that strong history as well
is different on where it is and who
they're protesting and how much does
this kind of activism put pressure on
President Joe Biden over his
administration's support for
Israel it definitely puts pressure on
Joe Biden to communicate what that
support is I also think it puts pressure
on the protesters to be really clear
about what are they looking for are they
looking for something from President
Biden are they looking at something just
a statement from their University and
what does that statement say this
protest used to involve ceasefire now
well President Biden has indicated
recently and repeatedly he is calling
for a ceas fire so has the has the gold
post moved and how does Joe Biden reach
them where they are how does he convey
this is important but this is not the
only issue that is important in this
election and also how do I tell you when
I've reached some of your demands what's
what are you guys what are we going to
do together how do we collaborate on
addressing your real concerns while also
still governing so let's Zoom a little
bit out to look at the impact here on us
politics obviously big elections coming
up in November how much is the Gaza war
in general having an effect on American
voters I think it's having an America
effect on American voter apathy we have
young folks who are very fired up and
certain um identity groups saying I'm
sitting it out I'm just sick of what's
happening I feel like I have no voice
they're pulling back and what it's
creating is a sense of turmoil with
other kind of Centrist older independent
voters saying I've had enough of the
drama I I'm just I don't see why I
should vote at all so foreign policy is
never very rarely at the top of mind for
American voters they vote with their
pocketbooks they vote on social issues
but I think what it will create is a
Discord among Democrats in a time when
Biden absolutely needs them to be
unified so it could Splinter the
Democrats it could encourage voter
apathy folks to just stay home home um
and absolutely impact the election in
kind of these more tangential ways Li
Shula thank you so much for sharing that
analysis with us we appreciate your
time thank
you we have our correspondent Benjamin
Alvarez grber over at Columbia
University we can speak to him for more
Benjamin good to see you Columbia has
extended this deadline to reach an
agreement on clearing protesters
encampments where do things stand now
as you can see behind me the situation
right now is quite calm it was 10 at
midnight yesterday when this deadline
was supposed to be enforced when there
was no agreement when we then heard that
it was further postponed to 8: a.m. and
now everyone here is talking about 48
Hours the negotiations are continuing
between the organizers between the
office of the president of Colombia
University but also there was a lot of
movement today because the Speaker of
the House of Representative Mike Johnson
came here and met several Jewish
students also held a press conference in
front of the stairs in front of one of
the main buildings here in Colombia
University the big question will now be
how this will it continue to develop as
we see these prop Palestinian protests
swapping over to other universities not
only here in New York but in other
cities and other parts of the country
but the students here have been clear
that they will continue with their
encampments until their demands are met
so for any who's maybe just tuning into
this story or or hasn't been paying
close attention can you spell out for us
a little more about what it is exactly
that protesters are
demanding well they have been asking a
university and also the president of the
university is on one side amnesty for
the students that have faced
disciplinary action let's remember that
last week the president of Columbia
University decided to call in NYPD New
York Police Department they came in at
campus grounds arrested more than 100 of
them many were also suspended so they
are saying on one side amnesty for the
students and also staff members that
were arrested but the main demand is to
divest and that's what they have been
repeating all over again to divest from
businesses to profit from Israel's war
in Gaza and they have been saying that
the university management has not been a
transparent enough about that they say
that they will continue here saying that
a focus should not only only be on the
discussions that what we're seeing on
college campuses across the the United
States but also what's actually
happening they want to press the Biden
Administration saying that there needs
to be conditioned of the military aid
that is sent to Israel now with this big
package that was just um by sent to the
desk of President Biden that was signed
earlier today sending military aid to
Ukraine to Israel and Taiwan but the
students here say that they will
continue protesting as to see this
movement spreading to other campuses
across the country and you mentioned
Colombia's decision to call in police
that partly in reaction to the fact that
some Jewish students have voiced their
concern that that Colombia is not doing
enough to protect them can you tell us
more about how Colombia's Administration
has reacted to
this that's right and they have not been
the only ones who have been raising the
alarms we had the Secretary of Education
also the White House saying that
anti-Semitism has no play not only in
the campuses and colleges across the us
but anywhere and that's also what a
speaker of the house Mike Johnson said
earlier today with some students um also
fearing of coming to the university a
rubby close to Columbia University also
said that Jewish students should stay
away we spoke to some faculty members
here who said that they have spoken to
students who said they saf or others are
having concerns and we also earlier
today spoke to an alumni that has been
part of this encampment and ask her
about these concerns of anti-Semitism
during the protest here at Columbia
University the students have been very
clear on what their values are and that
is opposed to all forms of bigotry
including anti-Semitism and I think
anybody who has been um in this
encampment for any amount of time can
see that um they have been very
committed to that value of standing with
one another most many of the organizers
um are themselves Jewish and have been
steadfast in their commitment to
standing with Palestinians and standing
with their um their classmates um in
this encampment um and again it's it's
it's been really beautiful to see these
students not only respect one another in
their religious observances but also
support and go out of their way to help
them um you know observe their their um
customs and their
practices so Benjamin that is one of the
many protesters you've been speaking to
as you've been reporting on this story
over the course of the last week can you
tell us what you have seen there
I was here last time on Sunday it's a
pretty short time frame that media has
to come inside and to speak to people
here and that's something that's very
important because as we have spoken to
protesters here they told us that it's
different from the protesters that are
outside many of them quite aggressive we
also heard earlier today chance um
criticizing and being against the two
State solution also anti-semitic um
chanting that we've heard outside of the
university and also comparing with what
we the see inside here it it's been
definitely a development and the
decision by the president of Columbia
University to send in nyd and that led
to an increase of this momentum here at
this University but also what we're
seeing at other universities that have
joined we have Harvard we have um MIT we
have a University of South Carolina also
we're seeing that in Texas so it's quite
interesting to see how this has been
spreading to other universities who has
been able to come here to see what the
protests are demanding how those
protests have changed how the
communication is changing we had an
email sent by the Office of the
President after 4: a.m. so they have
been very busy also behind the scenes
talking to the organizers here I mean
this has turned definitely into a
nationwide conversation a nationwide
discussion with so many weighing in in
in discussions on freedom of speech
discussions on protests within the
universities but also outside and this
discussion has been ongoing not just
from the Republicans who have been
criticizing the government of not being
too hard but of the protesters on the
other side saying we see the split
within the Democratic party also when we
had the discussions in the Senate over
the bill that was stalled in Congress
for many months and was finally had the
green light with this military aid that
was passed then by the Senate and
already signed by President Biden we saw
a part of the democratic party also
saying that a military aid to Israel
should be a conditioned and happen
criticizing indeed the government of of
Joe Biden saying that they should put
real real red lines on the government of
Benjamin nanya well thank you so much
for your reporting as always that is our
correspondent Benjamin Alaris grber at
Columbia University today